Does it always have to go
around application know
if it is only a part of your
app that needs this right?
Like our application we've got
the one I used to work on for
a number of years had like contacts,
but they also had an editor, but
those might, I don't necessarily
need to read the entire thing and
that I can kinda go to
the smaller part that needs it.
Cuz we in case we're gonna
move that stuff around.
But in this case is a relatively
simple application.
Maybe this is for
a lot of cases is the answer, right?
If you've used Redux before,
it's usually wrapped around
the overall root component as well.
Same thing as like react router.
Typically you will see it here.
What happens if you end up
needing multiple providers?
Or you're just gonna end up stacking them.
It's not it feels wrong, but
it's okay could you could
probably do some crazy stuff with
functional programming and composing and
piping stuff, but probably not worth it.
So now anything can hook into the context,
which means we can do a little
bit of refactoring now And
there is nothing scarier than doing a
major refactor live coding, but we'll try
it out and we'll hope for the best and
we'll deal with whatever errors come up.
So everything is now
a child of GrudgeProvider,
which has the actual context provider,
which has that state management.
So anything can hook into it, which means
application doesn't actually have access
to add grudge or grudges anymore.
Right, so
and we will likely come back and
admire this in a second but
really just wanna talk about
what we got out of this now,
To how to justify the next few moments,
what we're gonna do.
NewGrudge is now this atomic piece that
I can move anywhere in the application.
It doesn't necessarily need everything
to pass down from application.
So I wanna make a sidebar and
move it over there Cool,
it knows about how to add a garage or
will know about when we're done.
Right?
The individual garages I need to move them
someplace I can just basically
say here is the hierarchy.
Here's exactly what my
application the layout should be.
And I'm not necessarily worried about
like threading everything through and
thinking about it.
I'm just basically arranging
the application And
I can move stuff around and everything
will just work it's kind of like atomic
and composed with a state
management that it needs.
So let's go ahead and we'll implement it.
So I'm gonna save this file whatever you
do don't look in your browser cuz we've
broken everything, but it's fine,
cool so we've got that in place,
so what we'll do here is for
the grudges themselves, now grudges
plural doesn't get Unforgive anymore.
Because it doesn't need to do that
passing along so we can get rid of that.
It will get all the, you know, it actually
won't even receive the grudges anymore.
Because application doesn't have them,
applications not passing them in.
Right.
what it needs to do is it needs to reach
into the context and grab them.
This is where we'll get to
use the use context hook.
So all I'll do is say const, grudges
Let's go back into grudge context,
I just need to export it,
the actual context itself
Right, so now grudges, plural,
can basically say, okay,
hook into the GrudgeContent, and
get the grudges out of there.
It doesn't need anything passed in.
It can be moved anywhere.
We don't have to worry about this passing
stuff through the component hierarchy.
It does make sense.
You'll see some patterns where you might
have for the list of things just an array
of IDs, and then each singular grudge
might be in charge of like going and
finding that one and it might also
have to hook into the context.
We're not gonna go that far right now.
But we can see that Grudges plural
doesn't get anything past and
it can just hook into the context.
Same is true of grudge singular, right?
It will get the grudge past and
from above which makes sense.
Again, we could- We still need
to know which grudge this is,
we need to pass something.
Whether it's the idea of which one
to go get from the context API, or
the whole grudge object.
Really, it's about how
your data's structured.
In this case, we have the full object,
we have to pass either an ID or
the full object in.
So let's just pass in the full object.
But we didn't wanna thread
through that on forgive.
Right, and so if we want to get
access to toggleForgiveness,
it is the same basic idea.
UseContext, I'll grab that from
the GrudgeContext as well.
So it just reaches up into that context
that we made and so instead of being
called, 'toggleunforgiveness',
it's called, 'toggleforgiveness'.
So again, we say all right,
the Grudges be like,
"Hey, I need all the Grudges." The
individual Grudge can be like,
"All right, I need the ability
to forgive a Grudge." Right and
have access to that as well and
they don't necessarily have a path,
each one can reach in and
grab exactly what it needs in this case.
Alright, cool, so we've got all that in
there The other thing we wanna do is,
we're gonna want implement the ability to
add a new grudge, but first what we gonna
do is we're just going to comment that out
for a second to verify that we've works,
cuz new grudge is still broken,
cuz it's basked in property you passed in.
Might actually work,
unless we actually try to call it.
Let's see.
Yeah it's there.
Alright, cool.
So we got so refreshed.
I don't have anything yet.
So let's see what we got.
We've got the context provider.
Scott this value array of garages if
you don't save files, nothing happens.
There they are.
So we had an empty array as the graduates
prop and so I didn't save the file.
So you can see that there.
They are.
You will notice that I am rendering
all of them on every forgiven again.
All my performance optimizations
didn't carry through.
The reason for this is there's
no real way to know anymore.
That react memo was looking at the props
last time and the props this time.
But now it's reaching into context, and
it doesn't really know what changed.
Right.
And so
what we are getting is the ability to
get a nice clean kinda set up like this.
What we are losing is some of that
light performance optimization.
Now.
Yeah?
>> I was gonna say is another thing
that we're losing too is the ability
to kind of.
You have these components
now that you can't test.
>> Yes.
[LAUGH]
Yes, so that is true too.
And we'll round back
into that one as well.
Before because they were receiving
everything I could pass things in.
And I could theoretically test them now
that they're hooked into this magical
context API.
They come with a bunch of extra stuff.
Now, there's some ways to handle this one.
One thing that we do is we basically
have a like a test context
that we wrap it in for testing, right?
That is the easiest way.
There are also patterns,
like the container pattern or
the higher order component pattern.
Where then you hug
the presentational component
that doesn't have any access to
the context with one that only,
this is very similar to what our provider
did to the application, which is it did
all the state management in the past
into a dumb application component.
We can do the same thing.
We have a presentational component, and
a container component that does all
the state management and pass it in.
This is very common in Redux as
well as to separate those two.
So you have two options.
Which is one, make a text context,
which we do in a lot of cases.
Or two, just separate those two out so
you can test the presentational piece
separate from the actual state management.
So, yeah, that's a great point.
We also lost some of the Performance
optimizations but I would incur you as to
like make sure you have a performance
problem before you worry about that.
It is very easy to say in a code reveal
I heard that's not as performance but
react is fast and if it's not perceptible,
it's that trade off of maintainability
versus performance and I would argue
You know, in a lot of cases like
if you can't ship a feature cuz everything
is hard, We're all writing softwares for
our customers, some times it's a trade-off
between what is the right choice for
our customers, the ability to ship
features or our performance optimization.
And like some times performance is
important I do not want to make it sound
like performance is not important but
if it's not actually not performant
Choosing the unmaintainable thing to
fix a non existent performance problem.
Like if you're not code splitting, I don't
wanna hear about like the context API and
like react memo, right?
If you're not optimizing fonts and images,
this is like a high class problem.
There are some lower hanging fruits.
So it's a decision you need to make So
we've got it in there,
we've got it with the Grudges.
Now, NewGrudge, so
what would NewGrudge need?
Really, if you look at it now, it's
getting in this onSubmit, and onSubmit was
really just addGrudge was being passed in,
if you remember from the previous version.
Well, it doesn't need addGrudge passed in.
It can just reach into the context and
grab it itself.
Do you know what you are going to
do?You're going to reach into the context
API, and you're going to grab out at
drudge and get rid of this prop right up
here and replace this with the actual edge
that you pull in from the garage context.